someone dies in the UK every 90 minutes
76% of these are male what is going
wrong if you were to point to a single
point of failure it would be the Scott
Galloway entrepreneur bestselling author
Professor one of the most desired Minds
when it comes to business and life he is
about the obsession of how to be better
as individuals and as a society Society
tells you especially I think as a man
that your worth is highly correlated to
your economic success but for the first
time a 30-year-old isn't doing as well
as his or her parents men under the age
of 40 are 24% less wealthy the average
age of a firsttime home buyer is 47 now
it's an online dating you have to swipe
right a thousand times to get a single
coffee it's one in seven men doesn't
have a single friend we're going to have
men having relationships with machines
the most dangerous person in the world a
lonely young broke male and we're
producing millions of them and that can
lead to very ugly places for the economy
and Society what is the impact this is
having on women women have become better
educated and they're making more money
it means that the quote unquote pool of
viable mates for women is going down
every year and a lot of these men are
finding Role Models online yeah this is
a real issue that this is a group that's
struggling on the far right people like
Trump a criminal Putin murderer on the
far left as far as I can tell their
vision of masculinity is to act more
like a woman I don't think that's right
either we need a new vision for modern
masculinity do we need individual
Solutions or do we need societal
Solutions my Solutions are pretty
straightforward and this is the one I'm
working through and will definitely get
me in the most
trouble
[Music]
Scott it's quite clear that there is a
crisis in
society in different areas I called a
friend of mine who is called Simon
gunning before this conversation
literally 10 minutes ago he heads up one
of the largest mental health charities
in the UK and they specifically focus on
suicide they do a lot of work with men
and I said to him can you tell me the
latest stats on suicidality amongst men
and purposeless and those kind kinds of
things and he said to me someone dies by
suicide in the UK every 90 minutes 76%
of these are male for there's 25
attempts for every death it's the single
biggest cause of death for men under 45
and it's the single biggest cause of
death for 15 to 49 year olds and the
category of 19 to 35 year olds is twice
as likely to report being in a crisis
personally than any other group and
lastly 16 to 24 year olds are currently
the fastest growing group in history to
exhibit suicidality MH what is going
wrong in the way we've designed and the
way that we're executing upon this
vision of
society I think even the way we frame
the problem is incorrect and that is
when we talk about if you were to
say um that women women are three times
as likely as men to kill themselves I
think we would talk about the problem
through the lens of it being a societal
issue and we would immediately move to
what investments and changeing behavior
and education would address that problem
when we say young men are killing
themselves at three times the rate as
young women we use terms like
accountability or say things well if
they just opened up more about their
emotions or they need to get their act
together and that is we've decided when
it comes to men compassion is a zero sum
game and that if you feel bad for men it
immediately kind of outs you as someone
who might be anti-women or who's gone
red pill because the
void the the statistics are just
staggering four times more likely to be
addicted 12 times more likely to be
incarcerated and because nobody was
talking openly and honestly about those
very real issues that void created
opportunity for what I think are some
unproductive voices to fill that void
and start speaking to these men and
naturally a lot of people now have a gag
reflex when I hear people talking about
the problems around men so the first is
we need to frame the problem as this is
a real issue that requires and deserves
compassion and our sympathy you know
it's not a zero some game civil rights
didn't hurt white people uh gay marriage
didn't in any way diminish
heteronormative marriage and so the
first is to have a conversation that
this is a group that's struggling and to
stop using terms like accountability and
somehow blaming them for their own
problems here a 19-year-old male should
not pay for the sins of his father or
grandfather now and my yoda on this is
Richard Reeves uh but basically it comes
down to kind of three things the first
is biological our prefrontal cortex does
not mature as fast as a woman's an
18-year-old woman from an executive
function standpoint is like a
20-year-old male so or put in another
way uh two seniors in high school
applying to a college the woman is
essentially competing against a
16-year-old and that is her prefrontal
cortex had that executive function that
he has uh she had it at 16 so we're
seeing uh double the number of women
graduating from us colleges as men
because it's 60/40 ratio when they start
and then the ratio only gets worse
because more men drop out that still is
an incredible on-ramp to influence in
Economic Security these men are getting
on that on-ramp so there's biological
reasons there's also I think the
education system is just biased against
men uh boys are five excuse me a boy is
twice as likely on a risk adjusted basis
or behavior adjusted basis to be
suspended for the exact same activity as
a girl who's brought into the
principal's office for the exact same
infraction you're sitting in front of me
as a as a guy you're twice as likely to
be suspended for cheating on your
chemistry test as if you as a girl
coming in a black boy is five times as
likely to be suspended as a girl so we
still have we have a real bias now part
of that is that 90% of primary school
teachers are women there are more Fe
there are more female fighter pilots per
capita than there are male kindergarten
teachers men are not going into early
stage
education and this is really important
because you have an entire Cort of boys
who grow up the single if you were to
point to a single a sing single point of
failure where all of this starts if you
said where did this young man come off
the tracks if you tried to identify one
signal through all the noise it would be
the following when the boy no longer has
a male role model and with incarceration
with male abandonment and with a lack of
teachers in Primary School you have an
entire generation of young men who grow
up having never had a male role model
and so a lack of male role models and
education system that is biased against
them and then I think um economic
policies whether it's the Outsourcing of
manufacturing jobs the transfer of
wealth from young to old people and you
think well the fact that someone over
the age of 70 is 72% wealthier than they
were 40 years ago and someone under the
age of 40 is 24% less wealthy that
affects men and women I think it's
especially hard on men because I think
men are
still uh primarily evaluated in terms uh
through the length of
economic uh Vitality so they're
biologically behind women have an
education system biased against them and
we have economic policies that have
created a great deal of Shame and rage
and the last point I would just say is
for the first time in Europe and
America's history a 30-year-old is not
doing as well as his or her parents were
at 30 and that creates just tremendous
shame and rage I mean look at the
housing market the average age of a
firsttime home buyer is 47 now in 1980
the average age of a first-time home
buyer was 29 young people have been
sequestered from whatever you call you
know Loosely speaking the American dream
or the or you know the the UK dream so
the odds are just the the the forces in
the face of young men have just become
uh greater and greater and it's
manifesting in a lot of different ways
lower marriage rates lower birth rates
and uh uh skyrocketing and suicide
should also add that suicide is way up
among teen girls because of social media
so different challenges at different
ages you're committing a lot of your
time to both talking about this but
writing about this subject matter why
why does it matter so much to you
personally of all the things because
you're one of those individuals and I
spoke to your team and they kind of
echoed this that is very diverse in
their ability to speak about subject
matter you could talk about investing or
money or um business or
happiness but for some reason you've
honed in it seems in part to solve this
challenge that young men specifically
are facing why why
you well did you have two parents yes
okay so I had a single mother I was
installing sh because I'm that guy I'm
that guy that that as a kid like lost
didn't have didn't have a male role
model um
we were in what I affectionally call an
upper lower middle class household my
mother lived and died a
secretary um I just could have easily
come off the tracks and almost did a few
times and because government stepped in
and because because of things like pel
grants which are um financial aid for
kids in the lower I think cortile of
income earning houses because the
University of
California uh saw themselves as public
servants not as luxury Brands and they
let in 76% of
applicants you know and I got rejected
the first time so I was one of the 24%
that didn't get in and then I got in
again but the big hand of government
Lifted Me Up and also I had men a lot of
strange men step in a stock broker a
baseball coach a neighbor I had all
these wonderful men kind of step in and
between the warm embrace of government
in America that used to love
unremarkable people um men who step in
you know this is nothing but for me I
relate to these young men and I see an
opportunity there aren't a lot of
people I think I just think the problem
is so much greater than the emotion and
the bandwidth and the resources being
allocated to it and it's just simply you
know kind of a nod to the the
institutions and the men that help me um
so and also be blunt it's a commercial
opportunity it's a chance to talk about
something that's it's a white space it's
so obvious if you think of yourself as a
Tha leader you want to be fearless and
you want to move the needle on stuff so
this for me was just you know slowly but
surely you just look at the data and It
All Leads to one place and that is um
young men have fallen further faster
than any cohort in America in Europe and
and it needs to be addressed and talked
about this idea that it all comes back
to do you have a male role model in your
life links interestingly to a lot of the
data that says we're less likely to be
married than ever before we're less
likely even I was reading some stats
around when our first kiss happens and a
man's first kiss used to happen I think
it was around 18 it's now on average
into their early 20s everything seems to
be moving further and further and back
so from that I deduce that the chance
that a young man would have a male role
model in their life is probably
deteriorating as as well because there's
less marriages there seems to be um the
prospects of dating seem to have dropped
as well so is there correlation between
these two things in some in some
respect yeah
there's what's strange is so you don't
have kids right no what's weird about
raising kids now is that my mom was
worried about me getting into too much
trouble I think what's fairly common now
among parents is we're worried our kids
aren't going to get into enough
trouble and that is we see the the power
of unsupervised play we see the power of
maybe sneaking into a movie and getting
caught you know we see just uh the the
that it's important that at some point
kids are going to experiment with
alcohol and drugs and kind of better
they ease into it as opposed to never do
anything and then end up at College
their freshman year and just can't you
know can't handle the the onslaught of
it so you know I think that there's
something about the concierge and
bulldozer parenting that where we use so
many sanitary wipes on a kid's life that
they don't develop their own
immunities um 40% of Harvard's incoming
freshman class are
virgins and uh I worry that I mean this
is going to sound strange we have two
little teen pregnancy what do I mean by
that um unplanned teen pregnancy is a
bad thing but we have we have had such
dramatic Falls in that and uh drunk
driving accidents which is great but
what it signals quite frankly is that
kids are so over programmed and have
such a lack of um socialization now the
number of high school teenagers that
sees their friends every day has been
cut in half that were slowly but surely
sequestering from each other and when we
do that we become less mamalia we're
mammals were literally if you have dogs
dogs are happiest when they're lying on
top of you the worst thing you can do to
a dog is leave it alone all day and what
we're doing to young people is we're
kind of they are leaving others and
themselves alone all day we're
separating from each other we're
becoming less social and there's a group
of men who um aren't received well at
school don't find a source of Pride auto
shop metal shop wood Shop's gone away
they they go online to date they the
majority of them get rejected if you're
average attractiveness in online dating
you have to swipe right 2 200 times to
get a single coffee if you set up five
coffees you'll get one will actually
show up four or the five will ghost you
and decide later on they don't actually
want to meet up so a young man of
attractive of average attractiveness and
online dating has to swipe right a
thousand times so he gets validation for
one coffee he gets validation that he
has no Worth to the other sex he loses
confidence he starts engaging with
people because he has less opportunities
for Random Encounters where he has to
develop those skills and slowly but
surely he
sequesters from society and at some
point he just is not not really savable
he just never develops those skills
those skills around friendship or
romantic relationships in the United
States one in seven men doesn't have a
single friend one and four uh one and
four can't name a best friend in
addition marriage has become now a
luxury item if you're in the upper
cortile of income earning households
there's a three and four chance you're
going to get married if you're in the
lower quti the lowest cortile there's
only a one and there's a three and four
chance you will never get married so we
have a group of the most d ous person in
the world we're producing millions of
them and that is a lonely young broke
male and just bridging into AI I think
the biggest danger in
AI that people are worried about it
becoming sentient I don't buy any of
that or super weapons I think that's a
problem but we've managed through those
things bioweapons Etc before I think the
biggest problem that AI presents is that
big Tech presents a series of low
calorie lowrisk entry points into what
feels like a reasonable fact assimil of
a relationship I I think I'm making
friends online no but you're not really
experiencing friendship I think I'm in a
relationship with somebody well are you
are you really I'm learning no you're
not you're gambling on coinbase or Robin
Hood and rather than endure the
rejection and trying and develop the
skills and make the effort and it is an
effort and involves rejection of going
out into the physical world and
revealing yourself as someone who would
like to be friends with another man
Express romantic interest take those
risks we're developing these digital
analoges of life that create low entry
lowrisk
relationships and you think well that's
not necessarily a bad thing but it is
because it leads to depression because
the reason why romantic comedies are two
hours and not 20 minutes is that life is
about the
victory of taking risks enduring
rejection and having a small business
that works about about um approaching
someone and getting the interview cold
emailing someone and getting getting a
coffee and quite frankly pursuing
someone and developing the skills in
deciding to put on a clean shirt and
maybe shower more often and maybe hit
the gym every once in a while and maybe
text when you're not sure how this
person feels about you and figure out a
way to interact with someone around the
Nuance nuance and develop the skills
around human sexuality such that you can
develop a relationship that is the
victory that's the payoff after the two
hours and fewer and fewer men are
engaging in those risks and that Victory
and I think that AI in combination with
sex bots is going to create an industry
where Men start having relationships
with algorithms and Dolls supposedly the
sexbot industry is going to be bigger
than the domestic box office receipts of
all movie theaters in the US within 5 to
six years so we're going to have men
having relationships with machines and
Dolls as opposed to as opposed to other
other uh humans and I think it's just it
creates a a level of depression I think
her should be required watching for
every teen male and I think every every
teenager in in high school should have a
course as part of Health on mating
Dynamics where they teach especially
young men that approaching a woman and
expressing romatic interest while making
her feel safe is a skill and there's
nothing wrong with that and that the end
game of relationship a partner a
romantic uh partner is one of the keys
to a happy life and I think most studies
bear that out and we are sequestering
for a variety of reasons men from the
opportunities to have those
relationships and it also impacts women
but what we're seeing with women is two
and three under the age of 30 have a
boyfriend only one in three men have a
girlfriend because women are dating
older they want more economically and
emotionally viable
men on the point of sex box it's
almost it's almost impossible for me to
see how that doesn't become a huge part
of male dating you know I was speaking
to Mustafa Solomon who was the one of
the co-founders of and Mustafa yeah yeah
yeah one of the co-founders of m Deep
Mind which sold to Google and in his new
book The Coming wave he talks about how
all of these breakthroughs in technology
one of which is AI one of which is
robotics is going to sort of intersect
with the ability to have literally some
someone in your house who can not only
clean you know clean your house and do
the dishes and make your lunch but also
can love you MH in whatever artificial
form that love comes they can agree with
everything you say they can encourage
you and they can have sex with you MH
and dare I say and I'm sure this might
be clipped by somebody there is a
certain cohort of men who would rather
choose that than nothing and when
they're faced increasingly with that
choice it feels really inevitable to me
to see how they would choose
um some of them would choose a sex spot
or something to that effect to fill that
void we can all relate to that we all we
all make that type of decision in
different increments a lot of times it's
easier to say I'm just going to stay
home and watch Netflix and take an
edible and por order in and maybe maybe
watch porn instead of go out and engage
in the expense the emotional trauma the
effort the skills I have to provide
to try and establish something
resembling a real world
relationship and rejection is
enormously painful and you know I think
teaching young people rejection and my
son didn't make the football team uh
last week and he's 13 years old and it
was a big deal he was really upset he
thought this was the way he integrated
into the UK he loves football tried out
trouts are going really really well came
home threw his back down tears didn't
make the football team and of course his
mother's totally freaked out what do we
do and I'm like this is a awful day for
all of us and it's a great day for him
because this is what's going to happen
he's going to wake up tomorrow and he's
going to realize he's fine and he's
going to develop a little bit of callous
over that that emotion and I think
you're an
entrepreneur and and I've been an
entrepreneur my whole life I was single
most of my adult life I don't know I
don't know your relationship status but
if you're an entrepr
and you're single you're used to
enduring rejection and that is the key
to success that's the absolute key
because the only thing you know that
that has happened in someone who's very
successful professionally and personally
is they have developed the skills to
endure rejection that that's just it no
one bats a thousand you approach strange
women in a strange Place most of the
time it's going to be awkward and
sometimes it's going to be humiliating
because you're going to get rejected you
wna start a business you keep asking
people for money you keep asking
employees to join you you keep asking
for customers and clients and the only
thing I can guarantee you is a [__] ton
of
rejection the ability to endure that
rejection is absolutely the key to
success more so than Talent more so than
I even I wouldn't say hard work I'd say
grid is right up there but your ability
to endure rejection is the you you know
if you want to punch above your weight
class economically or romantically then
get out of spoon and get ready to eat
[__] that is a prerequisite to that kind
of success and technology is enabling
people to say well why subject yourself
to that risk you can you can engage in
something that feels sort of similar
without any risk at all and over the
long term it's just such a bad trade I I
mean you were talking about porn porn is
the largest unsupervised experiment on
young men that we've ever had and it's
largely unsupervised because there isn't
a lot of academic research on it because
most academics don't want to be known as
the porn Professor so there really is a
lack of research around it and when I
coach young men the first thing I do
kind of my go-to is I get their phone I
look at screen time I'm like okay let's
think of your what do you have as a
young person you have a lack of
financial Capital but you have a lot of
human capital and that's really
important time so we're going to think
about your time as money and we're going
to decide how we're going to invest it
let's look at your current portfolio of
Investments and I ask them to unlock
their phone and I say I won't be
judgmental and between Twitter Tik Tock
porn coinbase it's so easy to find a
minimum of 10 and sometimes up to 50
hours a week and we're going to
reallocate it and we're going to
reallocate it to other things and one of
the things we're going to reallocate it
to is like first we got to make some
money are you making any money you got
to make some I don't care if it's
flipping on an Uber app I don't care if
it's becoming an instacart a Dasher the
best way to make a lot of money is to
start making a little bit because you
start developing the skills and the
Hunger for More Money Right the second
is we're going to take some time and
we're going to try and invest in uh
organizations or activities that put us
in the company of random strangers not
just potential romantic interests but
friends mentors you that's that's super
you know that's super important and one
of the keys to developing what I'll call
the
Mojo to take those risks around romantic
relationships is to Moder your
consumption of
porn one of the only reasons I graduated
from UCLA was because one of my
motivations for going to
class was not only that I wanted to
learn not only that I needed to learn to
graduate I was a terrible student but
the prospect of potentially meeting a
woman who I could take to one of my
fraternity parties or that ultimately
might be interested in me romantically
and sexually and if I'd had the access
to porn that young men have now I'm not
not sure that Mojo would have been as
great to get out of the house as often
so just to tell young men not to engage
in porn I think is sort of
ridiculous but look at it analytically
and think okay would you be more
inclined to get out of the house take
those risk engage in the victory engage
in what it is to be a man and be a
mammal um if you had reallocated some
capital and ensure that that fire was
still there uh so modulating I think
modulating porn and more generally
spending less time online every digital
version of your life is a shittier
vision of the analog version that could
happen but everyone said I'd rather have
I'd rather have shitty shitty kind of
okay TV that's just mind-numbing as
opposed to putting in the effort to to
to do something great but um I think
it's more than just porn I think it's
all of it why leave the house why endure
that sort of reject rejection effort
expense it's not just so expensive to go
out right so but I think porn is one of
those things that young men need to
modulate and find and you know such that
they get their Mojo this all has KnockOn
effects for women and I think the data
is also suggesting that the crisis
amongst men is causing in many
situations a crisis for women as well
because we both you know men and women
exist in an ecosystem that needs to be
somewhat balanced um so I'd like to talk
about the impact this is having on women
one of the things I I found interesting
it's actually because of a young young
woman came up to me in a book shop I was
just there looking for my own book as
you do just cuz it just come out and she
said something to me that a lot of women
that have approached me or dm'd me have
said quite frequently which is she's
over the age of 30 now mhm she's
committed much of her life to her career
she's single she's tried dating apps and
she doesn't enjoy it and I part of me
started to think about the fact she
might be caught in a sort of
generational Gap where they used to meet
in person but now the the generation
below her meet online um and she
concluded what she was saying to me with
the fact that she believes or she's
starting to believe that maybe there's
something wrong with her because she's
over the age of 30 she's single she
can't find a partner she told me she's
never had a boyfriend MH she's killing
it in her career mhm and she was in that
Bookshop looking for advice from a book
mhm and I feel compelled because I know
she listens to this podcast to ask as
many people as I can the question to
find an answer for her because there's
someone very close to me in my life who
I literally text when I left the
Bookshop and I said I've just met you in
the book shop every sentence that that
woman said to me in the Bookshop is the
exact word for word even like I've tried
going to the gym and that's not working
mhm is the same as a close friend in my
my life one of my best friends has said
to me as well and there's not just one
in my personal life there's three or
four well we all know know
women I'm sure this happens to you all
the time really interesting High
character successful attractive women
usually in their 30s sometimes in their
40s who will say I can't find anyone to
date and it's not that they can't find
anyone to date it's that they can't find
anyone they want to date and there's
some Dynamics here the first is can I
just interject validate your point there
she also said to me I'm not willing to
drop my standards well and and and it's
like Warren Buffett said the key to a
health marriage is low
expectations the what's happening is and
I think his name is Chris Williams he
kind of reminds me of you he's this
handsome young podcaster he was blown by
all this old guys do you know Chris yeah
I know Chris anyways he does he does a
fantastic job and I've learned a lot
from him um but he calls it the high
heels effect and that is every year for
the last 50 years women have become
better educated and they're making more
money in urban centers they've now under
the age of 30 blown by they're now
making more money more single women in
the US own houses than single men
they're getting taller every year and
the reason he uses height is that 50% of
women say they want date a guy shorter
than them it's probably more like 80%
and even if they're not cognizant of it
just anthropologically subconsciously
they're just usually not attracted to
men shorter than them because they have
something telling them that this uh
individual is less likely to be able to
physically protect you so you're just at
a disadvantage from a height standpoint
now metaphorically women are getting
taller every year and men are getting
shorter right
men mate socioeconomically horizontally
and down women horizontally and up but
when the pool of men who are
socioeconomically uh uh senior to women
it just means that the quote unquote
pool of viable mates for women is going
down every year and women have been told
they can have it all and what I found is
you can't have it all um or let me put
this way you can have it all you just
can't have it all at once and that uh to
focus on their careers which by the way
I think is a good thing I think economic
viability is just super important for
everyone including women um but the
reality is as they have gotten taller
men have gotten shorter so there's just
less pairing Society has a tendency to
evaluate a woman's Success Through the
lens of her romantic success not as much
for men people look at you and think and
I don't know your relationship s but
people look you like guy who's killing
it he's killing it and he's single oh my
God it's good to be Steven Barlett a
woman in her 30s who's killing a
professional is alone it's like super
success ful but your your single status
is a feature for women it's seen as a
bug and you both might be just as lonely
but it's it's or you might be engaging
in and I'm projecting here I have no
idea what your situation is here but
there's this Dynamic where the men who
are in the top 10% can engage in Porsche
polygamy and that is
women um with online dating now believe
there's something wrong with this that
and I'm going to be this this is going
to get me in trouble but let's raate
everybody most people will acknowledge
that some people are more attractive
than others and they find certain people
less and more
attractive a woman of average
attractiveness can have a relationship
and when I say relationship that's code
for sex with someone who's in the top
10% but that individual is probably not
going to establish a long-term
relationship and because of the lack of
friction and connection and meeting
people via text message or online dating
the top 10% of men are getting 80 to 880
plus per of the opportunities for
short-term relationships or sex so they
can engage in what's called Porsche
polygamy and that there's not a lot of
motivation for them to establish
long-term relationships which leads to
bad behavior and a lack of household
formation so the guys that most women
want and believe that they should be in
a relationship with are the least likely
to establish a long-term relationship
and then the bottom 90 either have
little or absolutely no interest from
women so I want to be clear no woman is
responsible for servicing a man but what
I think has happened is this Dynamic
where because online has given everyone
access to everyone the majority of women
are all interested in the same group and
this group is now much less likely to
engage in a long-term relationship and
the result is that just there's a
disproportionate number of men and women
who quite frankly are just
lonely uh but men have a tendency when
they don't have a romantic relationship
to not only not have that romantic
relationship but then they have fewer
friends they go out less they're less
professionally successful you know if I
didn't have a mate who told me we need
to save for a house I'm not sure I
wouldn't have been smoking pot and
drinking every night you know she was
like if you want to continue to have a
relationship and have sex with me you've
got to get your [__] together that's a
men young men need that
they need the guard rail of a romantic
interest the cocktail or the the peanut
butter and chocolate of a household
where one person is more risk aggressive
you know that's really important and
pushing the boundaries of what can be
done and then another person who's more
practical and that often times goes into
gender roles not always and sometimes
it's flipped but that's a powerful
combination 1 plus one really does equal
three and across every species you see
that the majority of really wonderful
things including Offspring but other
things in terms of building a society
are a mix of different attributes and so
we have just fewer and fewer of that
peanut butter and chocolate in
households there are now more people not
only living alone but living with their
parents than ever before because they're
not establishing this relationship so it
has it's absolutely bad for women but
typically typically women still are
economically successful still find place
places to put that love and quite
frankly don't start killing themselves
or killing others so it's not that it's
any any any any less bad but the knock
on effects tend to be less bad for
society and I went through the research
from the Pew research but also from the
sort of centers of Disease Control just
to clarify some of these numbers for
women as well and they they cement
everything you've said um only 133% of
women over 30 were married in 1970 that
number has now risen to almost half the
divorce rate for women over 30 has
doubled in the past 50 years in 1970
only 10% of women over 30 were childless
today that number is risen to almost 30%
in 1970 only 28% of women over 30 were
earning more than their husbands today
that number has risen to almost 50% and
in 1970 only 12% of women over 30 were
living alone today that number has Ren
risen to 35% and on the point of
loneliness I was looking at how many men
versus how many women have a best friend
and it's it's multiples more so multiple
more women I find still have
relationships regardless of this state
of affairs because they they're better
at as you say forming social Connections
in non-romantic relationships with other
women than men are so it's a pretty it's
a pretty um Bleak picture and maybe most
importantly of all there's a clear
direction of travel here and if you
extrapolate out that direction of travel
we don't get to a good place population
decline you spoke of and how that lops
side Society depression mental health
suicide so the question becomes for me
what would you advise young men you
talked about money I thought that was
really interesting so maybe we we start
there personal finance and establishing
that I'm a young man so say 21 years
old
um what do what have I got to do with my
money where should I be putting it how
should I be earning it MH
so I think the three legs of the stool
we're going back to it re reallocating
capital as a Young Man one start making
some money two put yourself in r in
environments where you might have a
random encounter with a stranger also
and I know you engage in this we're
going to reallocate four to six hours a
week to physical
fitness um feeling strong feeling um um
in shape is one there's studies coming
out now that it's supposedly 50% better
than Pharmaceuticals and talk therapy
two you'll be more attractive to mates
you'll feel better about yourself you'll
be more kind uh I think that is
incredibly uh powerful but in terms of
economic success and I'm I have a book
coming out in March on this I think
there's a basic algorithm to Financial
Security or Economic Security the first
is focus and that is focus find
something I don't I hate the term Follow
Your Passion because typically people
mistake passion for a hobby and they
think oh I should be a DJ or I should be
an athlete or I should open a restaurant
and they choose into Industries with the
unemployment rate is 90 plus per. you
know the Riders are on strike in
Hollywood the number there's
180,000 uh people in the uh actors unit
Sager Afra and the percentage of them
that uh don't or that make more than
$24,000 a year to qualify for health
insurance is um 12.5% so I would argue
that there's under or unemployment for
nine and 10 actors so find something
you're good at that that where there's
an employment rate of more than 90% And
I want to be clear some people follow
their passion and it pays off hugely
Jay-Z followed his passion is now a
billionaire but I tell young man assume
you're are not Jay-Z find something
you're good at that has more than a 90
plus percent employment rate which is
99% of professions and then in invest
requisite 10,000 hours perseverance grit
willingness to break through hard things
willingness to suffer Injustice which is
a guaranteed attribute of the workplace
and get really really good at something
or at least having have a path to being
great to something also in terms of
being attractive to potential mates
there's very few things that are more
attractive if you're not already
economically successful than a plan this
is my plan right that's what I think
romantic potential rantic Partners want
you don't need to be a baller you don't
need to be driving a Porsche you need to
have a plan and that plan might change
that plan may not work out we got to
have a plan so the first is we're going
to focus and we're going to find
something we're good at and not only
something we're good at but something
people will pay us
for um that's the first thing you got to
make money but the second component the
key to wealth isn't isn't as much how
much money you make it's your ability to
live a little bit like a stoic and live
below your means and that's one thing I
always did I always live below my means
I never had debt I never use credit
cards for stuff and that is incredibly
hard in our society where um every
talented person and now ai and
algorithms are finding you at a moment
of vulnerability and convincing you that
you need a new set of on trainers that
oh wait it's worth it to upgrade from
economy to economy Comfort to economy
plus to business class I mean it's just
the the Market's ability in a capitalist
Market to find you a product you must
have when you have any disposable income
is just remarkable there are so many
amazing ways to spend money in London
and New York that to not spend all and
or not spend more than all is real
discipline that is in that shows
incredible character at a young age you
need to live like a stoic your your
advantage as a young person is quite
frankly to live in a [__] shoe box
and spend no money on rent spend no
money I used to make it a game one
summer at UCA and this was more out of
survival or need but if I didn't make
$3,300 between my Junior and Senior year
at UCLA I wasn't going back to college I
owed the fraternity a ton of money I
wasn't going to be able to pay my
tuition so I had 11 weeks to make $3,300
and I figured out if I just lived in the
fraternity in a shitty little room that
I was paying no money for and I only ate
Top Ramen bananas and milk I could save
I could I could live on $110 a week that
was my total budget and I could do it
and when you're a young man and not only
that it was still a fun summer I would
still go we would
money and go buy a case of Schmitty beer
and then on Sunday uh Sunday nights we'd
go to Sizzler this tacky restaurant in
La for a brewing special Malibu chicken
and all you can eat salad bar and I used
to go with the other members of the crew
team and just clear them out and spend
three hours gorging but we still had a
good time but when you're young I think
you want to lean into this great thing
where you don't have to spend money it
is impossible not to spend money when
you get a little bit older and you start
collecting dogs and kids you can't sleep
on someone's couch you can't sleep in a
shitty apartment you can't walk to work
you can't live on Top Ramen and bananas
so the ability to gamify and really try
and live below your means and then that
creates an army of capital and that army
of capital goes out for you and starts
making money for you when you're in your
sleep and that goes to specific
investment advice the first is and
people don't like to hear this do away
with the notion that you are brighter
than anyone else and going to be able to
figure out individual stocks or
Investments that allow perform the
market I can't convince you of that 100%
and some of it is fun and if you want to
learn about a stock and you want to buy
Nvidia or you want to buy DOA coin fine
but try not to do it with more than 30%
of your saved money try to take 2third
plus of your saved money and put it in
lowcost ETFs and index funds because
here's the thing our flaw as a species
is we don't realize how fast time goes
because the majority of us for the
majority of history have died before the
age of 35 we can't process how fast time
is actually going to go when you go past
35 at the age of 39 we stop we have no
longer have the ability to process the
way we change in terms of our own
physical appearance so from the age of
39 on and I can validate this every time
you look in the mirror you're like [__]
what is that because you can't process
what is happening to you because for the
majority of your species history you
weren't around post
39 you and I hopefully will be sitting
here in 20 years or over a beer and I'm
going to look at you and I'm like how
fast did it go and you're gonna like
Jesus like a blink and so if I said to
you Stephen give me 20 give me find out
a way to save a th000 bucks 1,000 bucks
and in a blink it's going to be worth
6,000 because I have this magic box how
hard would you try to get as many as
much of that Capital to put in that box
the power the power of diversification
and time because if you diversify I can
get you 68% a year right every day 51%
of stocks go up 49% go down but if you
invest in any five S&P stocks over 10
years and don't trade them no one has
ever lost money 85% of day Traders lose
money if you buy five stocks put them
away and never look at them again 10
years later no one has ever lost money
so diversification and this is where I
really screwed up I didn't understand
the power diversification
successful people fall into the Trap of
thinking I'm a baller I'm smarter than
everyone I'm going all in on Cisco cuz
everybody wants internet infrastructure
I'm going all in on Amazon if you went
all in on Amazon in 99 in 24 months you
had lost 90% of your principle even
Amazon the best companies in the world
if you look back the majority of them
have had 24mon periods where they went
down 90% but if you'd held on if you'd
held on and you didn't day trade and you
didn't look at your stock you'd be up 30
or 50x now so the power of
diversification and also a recognition
that time is just going to go so much
faster than you think so Focus find
something you're good at that people
will pay you for live like a stoic save
you know spend less than you save so you
can develop an army of people who are
killing it or killing people and
invading the Earth while you're in your
sleep recognizing the power of
diversification and then appreciating
how fast time will go and not tra stocks
just let time take over if we give every
baby and this is a potential solution to
what I think is going to be an oncoming
crisis among seniors or too many of them
that we can't take care of if we gave
for $40 billion from the US budget we
could give every baby $7,000 and I think
we treat them like INF infants and we
put it in a savings account ETFs
Diversified by the time they're 65 just
with that $7,000 if you didn't let them
touch it or trade it it'd be worth a
million bucks so the fastest way to get
every senior a million bucks and granted
it's 65 years from now would be to give
every baby
$7,000 and that just shows you the power
of compound interest and time and
diversification I think it's fairly
simple those four things but they're not
easy to do easy to do but everyone can
do them almost everyone can do them and
for anybody who really is you know
they've got I don't know $3,000 in their
savings account they have never invested
a penny before in their life they don't
know any of the time techology we just
used they don't know what Vanguard means
they don't know what low fees mean what
is the simple way of getting them on the
right track from that point of I I drive
taxis I got $3,000 in my bank account or
$500 what do I do go to Charles Schwab
or public.com open an account and first
off find out um the equivalents in the
UK are like hard grief lands down um you
can do a lot of this stuff on a lot of
different apps where you're picking a
fund right go into spy or go into an
index or an ETF that buys a bunch of
stocks for you make sure it's low fees
and find out and I wish I knew more
about the tax law here find out if your
employer or the government offers you
some sort of tax advantage vehicle in
the US it's it's Roth and 401ks we have
ice we have a retirement um system where
you can invest in your retirement and
you have to understand that [__] and if
you don't understand it find your
daughter or or someone who can explain
it to you and then the key is just start
and put it in an ETF or an index fund
that tracks the entire Market low costs
low fees and find out if you have access
to anything that's tax advantage but the
key the key is to start but I only have
$100 well Christ that again that 100
bucks in 20 or 30 years will be a
thousand or more and not only that it
gets you it gets you to a taste for
flesh you know like I remember I went on
my first Safari and they said the line
you know unfortunately we had one Lon
attack a human and now all of them
appear to have a taste for human flesh
they never used to go after humans
before but once they get a taste for
human flesh like oh this tastes pretty
good let's start killing people killing
and eating people just a hundred bucks
and then you wake up and you're like oh
it's worth 108 it's worth 112 you get a
taste for the Flesh of how powerful
money and time and investing is and just
start I also think it starts to make you
feel in a weird way I think it makes you
feel and and and I'm just saying this
because I can relate to it as a man I
think it makes you feel masculine to
feel like I'm taking care of myself I'm
strong enough to live below my means
discipline isn't it yeah I I'm it's like
working out you just feel better about
yourself and I think living below your
means and creating an army of capital
everyone talks about starting a business
at skills so that can make money in
their sleep that's their goal you can
make money in your sleep by saving it
and investing it but the key is just a
start quick one this is really really
fascinating to me on the back end of our
YouTube channel it says that
69.9% of you that watch this channel
frequently over the lifetime of this
channel haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button I just wanted to ask you a favor
it helps this channel so much if you
choose to just subscribe helps us scale
the guest helps us scale the production
and it makes the show bigger so if I
could ask you for one favor if you've
watched this show before and you've
enjoyed it and you like this episode
that you're currently watching could you
please hit the Subscribe button thank
you so much and I will repay that
gesture by making sure that everything
we do here gets better and better and
better and better that is a promise I'm
willing to make you do we have a deal
Scott every time you mention male role
models your demeanor changes a little
bit same more and I I see the emotion
and passion in your face yeah the I mean
I like I said I could have easily come
off the tracks and all these
wonderful men from different parts of my
life I mean this is um one of my one of
my uh books the algebra of Happiness was
optioned to be turned into a series and
the series was going to be like an
R-rated version of Modern Family because
this was the reality of my life I lived
with my mother and her boyfriend for
seven years who was a male role model
for me we were that family that they
don't talk about in movies or dramas and
that is we were the second family Terry
was married with kids and every other
weekend he used to come spend with me
and my mom and you immediately think
this is a bad person he was wonderful to
me he was a great role model he was
generous he was kind he taught me a lot
about what it meant to be successful and
a good person and after him and my mom
broke up he reached out and kind of
tried to stay involved in my life you
know I had I had men like that I
remember meeting men I met a cam
counselor who would just stay in touch
with me and he he was in technology and
he taught me a little bit about
programming and here's the thing here's
the thing Stephen and this is I mean the
bottom line is when we go to Solutions
the number one solution for what ails
young men is other men and that is uh if
we want better men we have to be better
men and I think the ultimate expression
of masculinity where it shows your
powerful you're strong you're smart is
when you get involved and irrationally
passionate about the well-being of
another child out that is that shows you
have hit a certain level of success and
unfortunately I was on Bill Maher I'm
doing a lot of name dropping right now
and I said that and Bill Maher
immediately went well I'm not going to
get involved in any 15 year-old boy's
life they're going to think I'm a
pervert and the reality is the Catholic
church and Michael Jackson have [__]
it up for all of us and that is
99.999% of paternal and fraternal love
that men want to display and get
involved in a young man's 's life is
positive and Society has taught us to be
suspect of those men and it's a real
shame because those random generous men
who came into my life were were were
instrumental instrumental in in my
development and turning into a
productive citizen I think a lot of men
have
those the inclinations and that desire
to get involved and and and the good
news is these young men in need of
guidance are everywhere sometimes it's
just your friend's kids because
biologically uh kids start pulling away
from their parents because they need to
to get out you know leave the nest so
they start thinking anything your dad
says is just wrong and stupid but your
Dad's friend when he says the exact same
thing you kind of Nod your head and it
makes sense and young men who need
guidance are everywhere everywhere you
know my Nanny's kid is struggling your
friend's kids are struggling young boys
are struggling I get emails every day
from dozens of young men who are clearly
just like good kids trying to figure it
out they're just trying to figure it out
and they want a little bit of
reassurance and a little bit of guidance
in someone just to tell them that they
matter right but yeah that that the
number of men just randomly with no
self-interest who got involved in my
life was just I mean literally a gift
several of them and a lot of these men
are finding Role Models online like
Andrew Tate who is many people describe
as a symptom of this of this
crisis
um is there anything that Andrew Tate
says that you fundamentally agree
with I I I understand there's there's a
lot that you have a different opinion on
but what is what is it that he says that
you think has holds
Merit uh I'll go for than that I think
the majority of what Andrew Tate says is
probably positive it starts from a
really good place take accountability
for your actions be in great shape be
action
oriented but it then kind of comes off
the rails and the one of the ways you
kind of take accountability or take
action is to try start treating women as
property is to sign up for my class on
how to trade crypto which makes Trump
University look like Harvard I mean it's
just
it's a bit of a grift and I also think
that it what starts off as positive and
that's most the mo quite frankly that's
the most dangerous thing about it
because you can imagine a young
boy a young man just agreeing with most
of it and so then they adopt the last 10
or 20% Which quite FR is is really ugly
it's just misogyny what do you think
about the Bugatti in the Lamborghini and
hey look a young man wanting to acquire
items that signal power and strength
such that I'm wearing a panai watch that
I haven't wound in 10 10 years okay
how's that any different right cuz I
want to Signal my attractiveness and and
and and success to strangers right so
yeah that's I I get it I get it but you
know the baller the guy who ends up with
more what I'll call lasting
opportunities and quite frankly more
mating opportunities is the guy who buys
a Toyota and a saving money and is the
first guy in his coort to buy a house I
think the majority of people are less
impressed by your things than you think
they're thinking about your [__] less
than you're thinking about it I think
people are really impressed with
discipline and a
plan I used to believe I think up until
maybe two years ago that I no longer was
in search of stat status to some degree
well maybe like 70% I believe this
because I no longer have lots of
material possessions you won't catch me
and I mean you other than the car that
you arrived here in that's the nicest
possession I own I don't have sports
cars I don't have luxury item items or
watches or anything and then I read a
book by a guy called will stall who's
been on this podcast I'm sure the book's
behind me somewhere who told me that we
just are the the status games that we
play just change over time so instead of
logos we care about the size of the boat
or even Jack in his profession as the
Director of this podcast is playing a
status game of cameras and production
quality and that really changed my
perception I used to be quite judgmental
once I'd lost all my Louis Vuitton and
all the stuff that I used to buy of
people demonstrating status and I
arrived to the conclusion that it's
actually innately human it's it's part
of belonging and feeling valuable
amongst our tribes is playing these
status games and I guess that's what the
Bugatti is a metaphor of its the the
wealthiest man in the
world uh Bernard Arno and it's usually
either Bernard or musk but the
wealthiest man in the world figured out
that you know we want to feel Basic
Instincts the most Basic Instinct is
survival but a close second is prop
propagation what's that mean sex sex and
so the way you communicate your worth as
a mate is by one showing that you have a
Bugatti because what it means is I'm
successful and strong and if you have
sex with me your kids are more likely to
survive than if you have sex with
someone driving a Honda and women spend
a great deal of money on ergonomically
Impossible shoes and expensive creams
and lotions that elevate the height of
their cheekbones because supposedly that
means if you m with them their kids are
less likely to be prone to infection so
this all comes to propagation and show
me any product that has a margin gross
margins of greater than 70 or 80 points
I'm going to show you a product that
does one of two things makes you feel
closer to God I think the slope on the
back of a 911 I think the mesh on a BGA
Vanetta bag I think the you know
sometimes great art that can really
steal you you look at something and you
think God that just gives me a moment of
presence here that's because over time
the place we saw really really beautiful
things were sequestered to venues that
had a religious overtone to them the MOs
the temples the churches the most
beautiful artisans in the world were
commissioned to come in and say paint
the frescos on the ceilings here because
we want to give people the impression
that this is where God lives and people
started believing them when they heard
the music and they saw the beautiful
robes and the candles and the art so
when we are around really beautiful
things we just feel closer to God and
then the the other maybe more powerful
thing is it's signals are worth as a
mate and the desire to be more desirable
as a mate such that the next generation
is smarter Stronger Faster just never
goes away and the wealthiest man in the
world or it abates as you get older but
it doesn't I don't think it really goes
away but the wealthiest man in the world
is tapped into our need to feel closer
to God or be more um attractive to
potential M so I have a question back to
you where do you spend your money H
great
question businesses so investing
investing starting companies one of my
new chapter of my life where I'm I'm
starting companies and appointing CEOs
or investing uh investing very early on
in shaping the company I have a lot of
my money in the S&P 500 so just in a in
funds um I have some money in ethereum
which has been there for six years five
six years now it's done very well for me
so you're more evolved than I am
um you know I one of the reasons I
bought a home and as I think is so I
could tell people I own a home and Aspen
I'm I'm everyone has a certain level of
addiction you're either addicted to
trans fats THC alcohol codependent
relationship online shopping whatever it
is I'm addicted to other people's
affirmation and one of the ways I get
that affirmation is I don't want say I
don't flaunt my economic success I I
don't own a car I don't I don't wear
blingy things or anything like that but
I do find myself telling
people you know
just obnoxious douchebag things I hear
myself talking about stuff that canotes
my wealth so I still haven't gotten past
that I mean I still do that I definitely
still do that and I still and I and I
the minute it comes out of my mouth I
think you're still an [__] oh and I
then I do it again I hear myself saying
it I'm like God that's just so nobody
needs to know that why is it important
to you that these strangers know this
and I still can't I still can't get past
it it's still Society tells you
especially I think as a man that your
worth is highly correlated to your
economic success and so the reason I
have an iPhone I think we all have
iPhones because we want to communicate
our worth as a mate if you have an
Android phone you're kind of signaling
to the rest of the world that life
hasn't panned out the way you'd hoped
that if you had been just a little bit
more successful you'd have an iOS right
seriously it's like carrying a Discover
card I have an AMX black card that you
want to talk about a douchebag I spend
$7,500 a year for a card I don't even
know what the benefits are but I want
when I'm out around food and alcohol and
strangers I want to throw down blacks so
they think wow the professor is a baller
I like him I want to be his friend or I
want to have sex with him and it's
ridiculous in the fact that every 12
months I get a $7,500 charge for
carrying a card that's a different color
and I mean I hear that and you know what
I've done it for 20 years I'm gonna do
it for another
20 so I don't it's kind of like do as I
say not as I do what's interesting is to
kind of sus out at least become aware of
these things and to limit them because I
have a black card modul yeah and I I
think when they offered me the black
card I have I'm like sponsored by Amex
or something but um You probably get
paid to carry a black that's the
difference but no I still looked at the
financial decision and there was this
one tier where it's like we'll give you
a concierge I'm like I have a full-time
assistant I have multip you're going to
call some stranger in Dallas and ask
where to eat I mean that you just don't
do that I think I just went for the
cheap option that comes with no pucks
but you get the card I'm still sure I'm
paying something for it but um what I'm
saying there is it's for me I thought
just get better you you're never going
to be perfect I'm still going to have
these like insecurities and try and show
off here and there but just try and get
better and try and you know have less
regrettable moments and just by saying
to myself listen have you gotten better
over the last 5 years I go yeah you know
you the direction of travel is good mhm
I think that's what matters well that is
that's what it is to be an involve
person and to be human and to be you
know you think about marketing the key
to marketing is AB testing and just
trying to get better and better and
better and that's we're trying to do as
human so I evaluate your weaknesses and
your strengths and say where could I be
investing more and divesting and what
types of
Behavior Uh do I want do I want to start
out I just think that's what it means to
be a good person discipline and purpose
and motivation a lot of young people
that will come up to you I'm sure and
come up to me often ask this question
which seems to be like an invalid
question but they they'll say something
like how are you always motivated or how
do I find discipline maybe they're on
the sofa playing video games they
looking up at a screen at someone they
admire and they just think I can't find
what that that person seems to have that
sort of consistent tenacity towards a
goal I sometimes wonder if in areas of
Our Lives where we're lacking the
discipline and the consistency we're
searching for do we just need a little
bit more pain I've sat here and
interviewed hundreds of people and you
you often find these Mo these Rock
Bottom moments are the Catalyst for a
change in Direction in someone's life
and when they're not there yet when
their parents aren't threatening to kick
them out of the house or their their
best friends turn against them and tell
them listen if you don't change your act
you're not going to be a friend with us
anymore it seems like just the
correlation I've seen is that there's a
moment of rock bottom or pain where the
incentive structure changes and people
go [__] I have no choice now the pain of
staying the same becomes greater than
the pain of making the
change I think that's right I think most
success involves sort of it's not just
sort of gradual up into the ride there's
some Shock value there I think if George
W bush you know talks about his wife
Laura I think the same thing happened to
his vice president at some point they
were you know alcoholics and basically
their wives their respective wives both
of them both case said I'm leaving you
unless you stop drinking and kind of
once they stopped drinking their lives
they're professionally and personally
just took
off uh for other people I mean I think
it I think there are moments like that
for almost anyone who's been successful
or maybe not maybe it's incremental just
High character people keep plugging away
alcohol though interesting subject we've
not spoken
about yeah so I think a lot about
alcohol first so first off I just mean
to acknowledge I love alcohol and I'm
really good at it um like Winston
Churchill I believe I've gotten more out
of alcohol than it's gotten out of me
and I think there's this myth of
addiction that everyone who drinks or
does you know engages in THC is probably
going end up living under a bridge or be
economically ruined I don't think that's
true at all I think that the majority of
people who engage with substances do so
in maybe not a productive way but in at
least a way that's not going to ruin
their lives or their
careers and I'd like to think I'm one of
those people having said that if you
look at the studies around happiness
especially the largest study the grant
study where they segment people into
quintiles from the happiest to the least
happiest the most common attribute
across the cohort of the least happiest
was
alcohol and what I suggest what I advise
every person especially young people
especially young men who are more prone
to addiction to do is to do an audit of
your
addictions and to go through everything
and say all right everyone has a certain
level of addiction what are things I
just do a lot of that I could probably
do a little bit less of and then decide
what would happen and the test isn't
well am I living under a bridge or am I
addicted that's not the test for
addiction the test is would I be just a
little less shitty at things if I did
less of it when I got really serious
about my career when I got really
serious about trying to develop the
economic security to take care of my
mother I substantially decreased my
intake of alcohol and I didn't do any
drugs and I found that part and parcel
of developing the professional and
economic success I wanted at an early
age involved a level of just sheer
commitment that alcohol wasn't conducive
to it was when I got into businesses
later where they were more about
relationships and I had more
opportunities to go out where alcohol
kind of crept back in but I don't think
it's a bad strategy to decide that
you're going to work and work out and
invest in trying to meet people and that
alcohol alcohol can serve as a decent
lubricant as a young person to helping
meet other people is it's easier to
approach strangers after one or two
drinks um but I don't think it's a bad
strategy when you're trying when you're
on the up curve really trying to make a
lot of progress fast I mean if you think
of your professional career it's like a
rocket the majority of the fuel is just
is is spent trying to get out of the
supy atmosphere and then once if you can
get out of the atmosphere into the orbit
that professional momentum will take you
a long way but it's really hard and
costly to get out of that atmosphere the
inner
orbit and when you're really trying to
kill it and you just need to be kind of
Allin on your
career yeah that's probably a point
where you want to air on the side of
doing less rather than more quick one
you guys know that for years now my
office has quite literally been
everywhere on a plane in the back of my
car in a terminal in an airport or on a
train you name it I've probably worked
there ever since I started my first
business at 19 years old I've been
working on the move all I need is Wi-Fi
a desk and my headphones and I'm set and
one of the places that has always had my
back when I'm struggling to find an
office is Wei workor I've been using
wework for years now whether it's in
Manchester London Manhattan or La wew
work is easy it literally requires no
thinking there's no stress of finding
the perfect working location wew work
does it all for you plenty of desk space
meeting rooms collaboration spaces
drinks snacks it's all there so for your
next remote working trip away from the
office or if you want a new Fresh space
to work in then don't just work anywhere
wew work might just be your answer and
you can get 25% off your first 6 months
of wew work all access by using Code CEO
works that's one word CEO works and to
redeem this offer visit
w.co CEO works as you may know this
podcast is sponsored by hu if you're
living under a rock you might have
missed that I've come to learn over time
not all of the products they have are
for me but the ones that are for me have
really really changed my life in a
profound way all of the products are
designed for different use cases and
different people for me as you'll
probably know the ready to drink bottles
are a staple of my life at the moment um
and they have been for many many years
but for a lot of other people they have
the hot and savory which is a 5 minute
hot meal that's nutritionally complete
it contains all the good stuff that all
heel products contain which is the 23
vitamins and minerals and the wonderful
balance of sort of nutritional
completeness and then you have the bars
as well if you've heard about hu on this
podcast you've heard me talking about it
a lot you're aware that I'm an investor
in the company you're aware that I'm on
the board of the company and you're not
sure where to start I would highly
recommend starting with the bestseller
bundle basically we'll send you a
package in the pose containing all of
the favorite products that people love
and then you try them all and stick with
the ones that really really fit you the
link is in the description below to try
the best seller bundle one of the things
I've always muled with is when we think
about the stats we've discussed in the
crisis and the issues in society yeah um
the direction of travel and how we're
living Our Lives more digital more alone
more lonely um more dependent on
processed foods and sugars and other
chemicals to keep ourselves seemingly
balanced there it feels like the
solution must be quite deep systemic in
the way that we're designing our society
so so I the question I've always
wondered is do we have to just like rip
up the entirety of the blueprint of how
Society is designed to solve for these
problems loneliness depression
sexlessness all of those subject
matters I don't think so I think the
solutions are
simpler uh than than the incumbents want
to admit in corporations a key component
of entrenchment is the delusion of
complexity you know um Twitter and
Google and meta will say that the hate
speech and the polarization that they've
created in the teen depression are kind
of indicative of broader problems in our
society and are these really complex
problems and they kind of stare
thoughtfully into the camera like we got
to solve these problems together
yet they kick One account off of Twitter
the real Donald Trump an election and
misinformation goes down 40 to 60% in
one day if they age gated social media I
think you would see a dramatic decline
in teen depression if you remove section
230 protections I think YouTube would
find ways to stop radicalizing young men
on YouTube uh I think the solutions are
simpler
than they're simpler but they're
expensive and specifically they're
expensive against the people in charge
and that is rich people in corporations
and I'll give you an example if you were
to try and reverse engineer the problems
in our society to kind of one Blast Zone
one Ground Zero I think it's what we
said before I think it's that for the
first time in our societ iy in a democ
in democracies it's happened in the US
it's about to happen across the majority
of the 28 countries in the EU in the EU
for the first time a 30-year-old isn't
doing as well as his or her parents
that's a fundamental breakdown in the
compact between a family and a society
and they get angry and they blame the
government or they start demonizing and
then someone fills that void and starts
demonizing other groups and says oh it's
not your fault it's their fault and that
can lead to very ugly places in history
so my solution is my Solutions are
pretty straightforward
if you have the average 7-year-old is
72% wealthier than they were 40 years
ago and the average person under the age
of 40 is 24% less wealthy and the
percentage of wealth is a percentage of
GDP controlled by people under the age
of 40 has been cut in half and a house
is 12 times more expensive than it was
40 years ago but their income is only 6X
what it used to
be we have too much money being crowded
into not only the rich but the old and
if you want if you want to solve if you
were to try and have one answer that
would address not all of it but really
take a dent out of obesity addiction
deaths of Despair uh male abandonment
divorce depression if we raised and I
don't know the numbers here but if we
rais in the United States the minimum
wage if we triple the minimum wage I
think you would go a long way to solving
a lot of those problems I think putting
more money in the pockets of young
people uh and reducing the rage and the
shame and the deaths of Despair uh and
the would go so far to solving
loneliness I think it's pretty basic at
the end of World War II the top tax rate
was 92% we just decided rich people are
here to reinvest in the middle class
when Reagan entered office and when
thater entered office the top tax rates
were about 70% by the time Reagan left
office it was 27% what we've seen across
studies University of California
Riverside and UC Berkeley did studies on
minimum wage and in Washington state
California New York where they
dramatically raised minimum wage the
incumbents will tell you the sky going
to fall businesses are going to go out
of business people are going to stop
hiring it's going to expedite them
trying to figure out a way to buy the
new burger Tron to to make burgers not
humans and what they found was the
opposite that when you increase minimum
wage even dramatically it grew the
economy and jobs because here's the
wonderful thing about lower and middle-
inome people when you give them money
they spend it and so the multip supplier
effect is more stimulative than when you
crowd money into the top 1% so if a
magic wand first thing a dramatic
increase in minimum wage and there's
very things very few things we could do
that would have this much impact without
increasing the deficit and it's time we
have employment unemployment at historic
lows so the employment Market could
absorb an increase in mandatory minimum
wage as a percentage of of GDP wages
have never been lower yet corporate
profits have never been greater
so yeah corporate profits would be hit
yeah the markets might go down and it
would absolutely be worth it this is
this is Ground Zero that's where we
start we're going capitalism is about a
Dignity of work and because there's such
a demand there's now 1.7 open jobs for
every one person seeking a job in the US
I think it's 1.3 to one in the U in in
the UK we need to put more money in the
hands of lower middle-income households
full stop how many kids have you got SC
I've got two 13 and 16-year old boys
what is it you the advice you give them
about the world they're coming into
their their adolescence and their going
to be off dating and all of those things
if you if you had to equip them with I'm
sure you do what are the messages you're
trying hard to either directly equip
them with or
indirectly infect them with in terms of
values and principles for life um for
your oldest you said 13 m is 16 my is 13
13 okay so 16 years old Jesus that's
when it all starts happening mhm so what
I try and do is like I think about all
right I want to show the these kids that
I want to be kind to strangers right you
know just I want to be I want to work
hard I want to I want to have good
manners I want to try and occasionally
someone says something service person or
whatever is rude to me and my ego is
when I was your age I felt like I always
needed to restore the world's balance
and no one could be disrespectful to me
or I got got back in their face and now
I realize occasionally just take it
occasionally just take it that's what it
means to be a man I try to be physically
strong I work out I try to get them
working out I'm just trying to show them
stuff because I find it's very hard when
they get to a certain age to advise them
they don't want to hear it so I'm trying
to be that guy um and you know but it's
not I have an easier time advising other
16-year-olds in mine because mine is
healthfully pulling away from me and
I'll come back but right now he's
pulling away what is what is masculinity
isn't that you're writing a book at the
moment right you're writing two books at
the moment about various subject matters
what can you tell us about what you're
writing
about yeah well I'm finished with the
algebra of wealth book I'm just starting
the book on masculinity but I think we
need for our previous comments I think
some unfortunate voices have filled this
void around masculinity and I think we
need um a new vision for modern
masculinity on the far right I would
argue that those forces have conflated
masculinity with cruelty I think people
like Trump and Putin and Elon Musk are
looked to as role models for masculinity
for a lot of good reasons but I think
being a murderer Putin a criminal
Trump or someone who has 11 kids none of
whom he's living with musk I think that
is exactly what it means to not be a man
and when I try and trifate the three
legs of the stool masculinity and I'm
still working through this and I'm
curious if you have any thoughts but I
come up and then so on the far right let
me back up the wrong vision of
masculinity on the far left as far as I
can tell their vision of masculinity is
to act more like a woman I don't think
that's right either it's like what how
do men how do men become better men act
more like a woman I I don't think that's
not only what men and Society aren
looking for I don't think that's what
women are looking for I think if there's
a fire or Russian soldiers pour over the
eranian border you want some of that big
dick energy and I also think that women
are attracted to generally speaking this
isn't true across the Spectrum we're
having a really important conversation
and everyone deserves respect but I
think demonstrating a certain level
of uh unabashed masculinity is really
important in in romantic relationships
and for me the pillars or the three legs
of the sto masculinity trying to distill
it down to three things are first
protector I think that I was in Seattle
at the Weston Hotel and I was checking
in and there was an alarm went off and
they said they closed the elevators and
said we a smoke alarm has gone off on
the 11th floor and these firefighters
about 9 minutes later showed up carrying
each of them must have been carrying 80
pounds of equipment and axes and all
sorts of [__] and it was nine men and
one woman and they don't look at the
cameras to see if there's a raging fire
on the 11th floor Flor they just bomb to
the 11th floor they're just there to
protect people like yeah we might die
fireman is actually more dangerous than
being a cop it's more dangerous than
being in the military but they're there
to protect you and whether it's the
military or things are cops or people or
or a head of household that's providing
economically I think being a protector
is a key component of masculinity and I
also want to say that masculinity is not
isolated to people born as males I think
a lot of women demonstrate masculinity I
think it's a wonderful attribute I
personally end up being more drawn to
friends who have more feminine
characteristics which are also wonderful
but generally speaking if we're going to
have an adult conversation around gender
and gender roles of masculinity I think
we need to acknowledge that 90 95% of us
will have an easier time embracing these
types of behaviors more commonly
associated with people born as males and
born as females but the modern vision of
protection the modern vision of
protection need some nuance and that
is the the trans Community I think most
men don't understand at their heart
don't really understand the trans
Community don't understand the notion
that parents and a doctor might decide
that a 15-year-old should have surgery
and go through transition with hormones
I think the majority of men don't when
that hits them don't understand it and I
think that lack of understanding can
lead
to um unconscious discrimination and
bias and I think part of being a real
protector is to acknowledge that you
don't need to understand stuff to um
protect people and that is I think our
first inclination should be as men this
is a community maybe I understand this
maybe I don't maybe maybe I do know
trans people I don't know trans people
clear out the politics of it clear out
your misunderstanding this is a
community that is taking a lot of [__]
even You could argue being persecuted
you're first role as a man in his
masculinity is to move to protect them
full stop that's what we do we protect
people and we air on the side of
protection and I think that is a really
I think that's a really nice attribute
to start from a level of protection when
you see someone being hurt you don't
need understand the situation you see
someone getting beaten up in a Subway if
you see a fight about to break out in a
bar you don't need to understand the
situation you move to protect to prot
Protection full stop that's what we do
as men the second is
provider um 70% of divorce violing are
from
women and it's usually a function of
three things the guy loses his business
has a mental breakdown or goes bankrupt
men are still look to to be the economic
provider and that's not to say that and
part of that is to embrace this
wonderful progress women have made and
sometimes acknowledge many times
acknowledge that the woman or your
partner is is better at this whole money
thing and being supportive and getting
out of her way cuz your job is just to
ensure play a role that you can provide
for the family um and then getting to a
point where you can take care of
yourself take care of your family and
then start to expand the circle and
start taking care of extended family
start taking care of the community
donations philanthropy I think that's a
real to be a provider for people that
ultimately you don't know is a form of
masculinity right to plant to plant the
seeds of of trees or sh you know that uh
you will never sit under the shade of
which you'll never sit under and then
the final one is procreator and this is
the one I'm working through and will
definitely get me in the most trouble
but I do think that part of masculinity
is being the initiator in a romantic
relationship and pursuing romantic
relationships and there's a difference
between Pursuit and being a predator and
if you don't understand the difference
you've got much bigger problems and
because of some well publicized and
heinous abhorent acts where
men um Abus their power um now we can
flate any sort of
initiative or or aggression around
establishing a romantic relationship is
predatory and I don't think that's true
I think men's role in being more
aggressive around romantic relationships
and even aggressive is a tough word
being the initiator I think that is part
of masculinity I think that's part of
success um one of the things you know I
hope my boy I try I think I told you
this last time I was here uh when I used
to go down I don't do anym because it
just got too much but I used to force my
kids whenever we went out to talk to a
stranger and we' sit outside our house
with my 13-year-old very upset because
he hadn't talked to a stranger I wasn't
going to let him back in the house I'm
like just go pet the dog just say hi
anything but that ability to initiate
contact professionally personally
whatever it is I think it's fundamental
to success and so I think guys need to
early on hopefully get comfortable with
approaching
strangers including including strange
strange potential romantic partners
because the stats are showing that about
50% of people who end up in
relationships made their first Contact
online and I it's funny I had a podcast
that we did about dating I won't go into
too much context I don't want to reveal
the guest but a lot of the comments on
that podcast were from young men that
were really I think pissed off with me
to be honest for not speaking to the
person who had created the dating app
and telling them highlighting the plight
of men in the dating industry as you've
said with the the amount of swipes a man
needs to do to find a m I need to give a
message to those men I understand and
let's move to Solutions so the first is
if you're in the top 10% of quote
unquote attractiveness on a risk
adjusted level around economic success
care women are attracted to men for
three reasons the first is their ability
to provide um the second is how smart
they are and the third is how kind they
are are Personality yeah right and also
intellect can come through in
personality the fastest way to
communicate intellect is humor is to be
clever I've always thought and I've you
know always thought if I can make a
woman laugh she'll go out she'll go out
with me and here's the problem so if
you're in the top 10% go online it's
going to be champagne and cocaine and a
mar Gro women for you I mean just you're
going to you're going to kill it if
you're in the bottom 90 the reality is
the online dating Market is a
humiliating experience for you because
the majority of women and their right
can have some contact or interest from
the top 10% maybe they're not looking
who are looking for a series of
short-term relationships and maybe a
long-term relationship but for the
bottom 90 of men especially the bottom
half have just been shut out they get no
activity online the wonderful thing
about human sexuality is there's a ton
of X factors the way you smell the way
you move your humor uh your smile right
the way your your passion for a specific
topic the depth of intellect whatever it
might be there's just the magic and
mystery of the soup of human sexuality
is so strange and it's wonderful but
there's one ingredient in that soup that
comes through online for men it's money
and for women it's looks that's it and
so it's great if you are in the top
desile for those things for either sex
but if you're with us in the bottom 90
it's about the magic and mystery of SE
sexuality that can be expressed in
person and what you find especially with
relationships that begin at work one
will say I wasn't interested in him and
then I saw him present in a meeting or I
saw how smart he is or I saw what an
interesting person she is and how funny
she is these things are really hard to
get across online and so we need to put
more money in the pockets of young
people we need more third spaces and
opportunities for them to meet each
other the number of high school kids
that see their friends every day has
been cut in half we're no longer talking
to our neighbors we're no longer going
to work so where are people supposed to
meet and find out that yeah maybe he's
not rich maybe she's not hot but I'm
into this person I want to go out with
them I want to kiss them but I've got so
much optionality in both those cases
that it seems that I value that less
right we used to just live in you know
the options were my village now they are
the internet everybody but when we gave
access to everybody everybody's now
under the I mean typically you're right
we were sequestered you went to or
church and there were kind of eight
single people four men and four women
and they sort of paired off based on
call it a multiple of reasons where they
figured out their weight class now it's
like well I don't have access to eight
people I have access to
8,000 so why wouldn't I expect that I'm
going to get in the top death sty and
what you find is that the metrics are so
crude and base
online that I mean we just end up I
would I would task people saying who
have met someone someone online or who
have met someone offline do you think
you would have been attracted to that
person their online profile like if you
saw a picture of them and then say this
is what I do would that be like yeah
that's the one and that's the beautiful
thing about and it's important we we
need more opportunities for people to
bump into each other and and and not
decide uh to give them the opportunity
to kind of fall in in lust and in love
over time for different reasons that can
only be communicated in person because
Us in the lower 90 that's our only
hope and if you just graduated from
dmouth and you got a job at Google and
your Rolex accidentally slips into your
profile picture on Tinder you're all set
99% of us are not in the top 1% we're
not working for Google can't afford a
Rolex so you got to bring something else
and it's important to develop those
skills a good rap iron your goddamn
shirt blow dry your hair work out a
little bit like you know figure out a
way that when you get yet and you have
the opportunity to meet someone in
person over and over that they're going
to be impressed by you and then slowly B
Sure think I'm more than impressed by
this person you know I'd like to have a
a relationship with them and we're
creating fewer and fewer contexts for
that to happen if we're not if we're not
even going into work right if we're not
volunteering if we're not going to
church like where on Earth do we we're
not going to the movies we're not going
to the mall I used to walk around when I
was 17 a senior in high school we go
into Westwood Village and we would just
walk around we're too young to drink we
get ice cream and we'd walk around and
we'd see a group of girls from Palisades
High School I went to UNI and about the
fourth time we passed them one of us
would take the leap and start talking to
them like where does that happen now for
young people right so I think it's econ
economic policies and creating more
third spaces I would like national
service I know a lot of friends from
Israel who met their spouses their
business partners their mentors in uh
military service I don't think it should
just be military it could be service
around Helping Seniors or healthare but
we need to give them more money and more
opportunities to bump into each other
and fall in love with each other and be
attracted to each other for the reasons
that are unique smell can't smell
someone online and not only that you
don't even know what smells you're going
to be attracted to you don't even know
and so unless you bump off a bunch of
people um in person we're just not going
to have nearly as many connections and
not nearly as many relationship ship but
I think there are pretty straightforward
Solutions here don't you think work is
the most obvious opportunity I think
when we think about social settings
where we bump into people like churches
and pubs and you know a lot of the
things that used to live on the High
Street that have now found home online
don't you think there's a huge
opportunity for employers to create that
sense of bonding the oxytocin the
relationships that forged in the
hallways of the office by bringing
people together because I have to say I
have always believed that and even
though the world went that way with the
remote working thing my teams including
all of the teams the 30 people that work
at the Diary of a CEO team we've always
been in office and I've made I wrote a
letter to them actually a year ago
explaining this idea of freedom within
parameters where you're trusted to make
the best decisions for your life but
essentially one of our core beliefs is
that of course we'll do some of our best
work in coffee shops and on beaches but
being together will make the stress less
stressful it'll make the work more
meaningful it'll make our lives more
fulfilling so I that letter to the team
and they're all hit like they're all
listening to this either upstairs or in
here or in the office down the road it
was the best reaction I've ever had to
any letter I've ever sent to my team MH
in terms of fire emojis and clapping
because I explained why and the the
first principles underneath my belief
made we're about them and it was it
wasn't just we're coming in Tuesday and
Wednesday cuz I'm the CEO and we'll do
what I say it was I understand that
connection and it's why I've always done
this podcast in person even through the
pandemic is going out of fashion but it
ain't going out of of our sort of
maslovian hierarchy yeah yeah look a lot
there
so uh I spoke at the Wall Street Journal
Europe conference the piece of content
that's gone more viral than almost
anything I've ever done I got just a ton
of [__] for and push back and I said
they asked me advice to young people and
I I started off I said um if you're
young you should never be at home home
is for sleep and you should be out and
professional and romantic success is a
function of the amount of time you spend
outside of your house and so they
clipped a young prison you should never
be at home homeless for sleep and
thousands of Tik toks with people doing
stitches showing themselves making
cupcakes or watching Netflix and
basically and then they chime in and say
screw you Scott Galler why do we listen
to these idiot Boomers uh because
they're saying look I love home going
out is expensive my apartment is so
expensive that I want to be at home
anyways that the work Place one in three
relationships begin at work it's a
fantastic place to meet and fall in love
and because of some abhorent
behavior um it's gotten a bad rep and if
you're going to have an organization the
number one source of retention for a
company comes down to one question do
you have a good friend at work I go to
weddings all the time with people who
met at work so but there's some Nuance
here the first is around remote work
remote work is an unbelievable unlock
for caregivers now is people taking care
of kids people taking care of their
parents people trying to take care of
themselves or quite frankly don't have
the money to live near work and so to
give them the opportunity to work from
home a few or four or the five days a
week or five is a big unlock and it's
something I think we should have a
caregiver classification that where we
try and invest and afford more
flexibility if you're under the age of
30 or 40 much less 30 the office is a
feature not a
bug and where we need though there's
some Nuance here here and that is we
need to modulate the kind of tech
environment or some of the tech
environment where it turned into kind of
this Bach nool and people you know
having sex in the you know the coat room
and Tequila everywhere that's probably a
little too much but in my companies I've
always created on a regular basis of
social environment for people to meet
and most of it's just socializing with
mentors and colleagues and making
friends but sometimes people start the
path towards mating and that's wonderful
because if all of a sudden there is no
workplace or you're discouraged because
HR would just rather nobody ever have
sex at work it just solves a lot of
problems you're taking out a third of
the mating opportunities a third and so
where are young people supposed to meet
if you're if you're into work and you
want to have influence you want to do
well and you want to develop Economic
Security so you're working all the time
and it's remote where on Earth are you
supposed to meet somebody and quite
frankly Sometimes some of the most
attractive attributes of you to
potential romatic Partners can be best
demonstrated professionally now there's
some nuance and I'm on a bunch of public
company boards and we deal with this all
the time I think above a certain level
of
seniority your flies up and locked it's
just not
permitted but in terms of young people
at a
similar uh similar seniority or J
they're all Junior you know my attitude
is have at it meet fall in love fall out
of love you know whatever it might be I
think that's a I think that's a
wonderful thing and I think
community and friendship and meeting
people at work I have a rule at my
company at prop G media and we're only
14 people now if any four of them are
ever together they get my credit card
and I mean they don't physically have it
but if the four of you are at are out of
play uh a football match or you decide
to go to Tulum which they have done
on a Thursday night or whatever it's on
me because that investment in community
and friendship is worth it it's a great
retention tool and it also is important
for culture so I think we I think that
the ability to meet people at work is
really important you just have some
Nuance there the the 50-year-old CEO is
making millions of bucks a year sorry
boss off campus and when we hear that it
was you thought it was consent no you
[__] up you're out we told you this
right here we told you right from the
get-go and I think it's important to
educate people about the Nuance of it
but to to tell people young people that
they shouldn't in an intense situation
where we tell them to work this hard in
a competitive economy to tell them that
they shouldn't form relationships that
sometimes lead to romantic relationships
that's just naive and and to your point
we've taken away an enormous Arena or
venue for making those connections which
were lacking so
my sense is workplace
relationships in 99% of the time are a
positive they're a feature not a bug I
appreciate the Nuance as well that you
applied to that situation because I
don't have children yet I have a clear
bias that that um I realize is there and
I did play forward the scenario where I
have say I had four or five children now
how I'd have to adjust or how I'd want
the companies that I run to adjust to me
and so I have to kind of reflect that in
the companies now because there are
people in my my teams even this team
that have multiple children and I think
that's where the importance of that
freedom part in the freedom of within
parameters thing where where okay we
have a set of God sort of guidelines of
how we work together that bring us
together and for that synchronous
collaboration and bonding but also we
appreciate that if we want to retain our
best people we need to keep them over
all of the seasons of life we need to be
a great place to work through pregnancy
fatherhood you name it um yeah I could
tell when you were saying that it's
great to be a young company where no
one's had kids yet and the majority of
people haven't had kids that's not
sustainable and show me a CEO who is
mandated back to office I'm going to
show you a guy who has someone else
taking care of his kids has the money to
live near work right it whereas a lot of
people don't um so the the back to
office mandates have usually been
dictated by someone who's in a real
position of privilege and I'd like to
see a new classification of worker
called a care worker where if you're
taking care of people you just are
afforded more flexibility also we need
to have an adult conversation
if you are working remotely the majority
of the time you're going to make less
money getting into work is hard it's
expensive CH sacrifice and you get
rewarded for it if your job can be if
you can move to Boulder Colorado if your
job can be moved to Boulder it can be
moved to Bangalore be clear the CEO of a
big conglomerate running the the
European unit can be more talented than
the person running the Americas but if
headquarters is in the Americas the COO
of the Americas is much more likely to
get the top job the you know CE of the
whole company uh in every in every um
promotion there's two or three people or
more who are qualified for that
promotion the person who gets it is a
function of the decider and the decider
is going to pick the person that have
the strongest relationship with and
relationships are a function of
proximity so before you collect dogs and
kids get into the
office we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and your question was actually
left by Daniel e oh Daniel I've never
told anybody that that before but
special occasion um
H the question he's left for you is with
AI coming in perhaps replacing many jobs
what parts of humanity will become more
important and what will matter less
so first off I'm an AI Optimist I think
this catastrophizing around AI is
narcissism technologists like to believe
that their technology is the single
point of salvation for Humanity or is
going to destroy Humanity it's just
narcissism I don't I don't think AI is
going to save or destroy
Humanity um the people who are most
valuable are the ones who get out ofe
of this technology versus what we did
with big Tech we let weaponization of
Elections teen depression polarization
get out ahead of the regulations so I
think the most important people uh it's
going to sound lame are government
officials that uh are thoughtful and say
We Won't Get Fooled Again and we're
going to regulate this technology but
when the people that are making the
technology are actually it seems to be
going to government and saying we need
regulation here they didn't do that in
web 2 with social networks and stuff but
those people like Sam Alman even Elon
Musk was at the Washington the other day
M pushing for legislation that for me
says something yeah what it says Stephen
is that they're full of [__] because
when Sam Alman calls for regulation in
front of Congress this is their go to I
can pull up clips of Cheryl Samberg and
Mark Zuckerberg saying we welcome
regulation we need this is their go-to
and keep in mind these people are
massively overc consulted by some of the
smartest coms people in the world Sam
Malton said says I want regular and I
believe Sam he's really Earnest he looks
like a young nice man and concurrently
he has lobbyists in the in Europe trying
to suppress regulation against AI I mean
this is just such [__] this notion
that stopped me before I kill again and
then they have armies of lawyers and
lobbyists and paint the money paint the
towns of DC and Brussels and money to
Stave off any regulation despite their
calls for regulation there hasn't been a
single point of Regulation and I speak
to a lot of senator senators and elected
officials and they just roll their eyes
and go senator Amy kashar has been
trying to pass antitrust regulation to
break up big Tech that is that would be
the easiest way to oxygenate both of our
economies would be to take these
incredible companies break them up and
you'd see shareholder growth growth in
jobs growth in tax base more startups
these things have just gotten way too
powerful but when she has antitrust
legislation while Sunder pasai will say
thoughtfully we should look at
regulation and you know that we defin
are open to regulation we're talking to
our partners that's their go-to
meanwhile there are more full-time
lobbyists working and living working and
living in Washington DC than there are
sitting US senators so this is their
go-to stop me before I kill again right
I want to be regulated and wouldn't you
know not a single pass of Regulation has
passed and it's is it because government
can't get their act together maybe or is
it because they want to give the public
the impression that they're good people
such that there's a lack of public
Uprising people love these products and
our elected officials are just outgunned
with some of the best and brightest
lawyers and
lobbyists who are have literally overrun
DC and Brussels so this whole call or
openness to regulation it's jazz hands
it's a head fake so I don't um but back
to the original question I really hope
that some of the best and brightest and
young staffers who understand a
I um get out ahead of this um and the
the you know this is we're going to see
the
first real externality of AI in q1 and
Q2 of next year and it'll it'll I
believe and it'll go something like the
following Putin's spending $70 billion
do and losing tens of thousands of lives
every year on a failed invasion of
Ukraine and he can the fastest way to
victory for him is really simple is the
election of Donald Trump he's won if
Donald Trump is inaugurated in January
of
2025 uh Putin has won the war in
Ukraine and if I'm Putin I figured that
out pretty quickly and instead of
sending 70 billion why wouldn't I just
spend 7 billion on troll farms and AI
tested information that will create deep
fakes that the deepos Biden and Harris
for
2024 and I have an aoral management team
who despite their calls for regulation
and their concerns about the
Commonwealth will cash these checks and
then post inauguration of a president
just feel awful about all the AI
generated misinformation that skewed
these
elections so we're about to see a
misinformation la la palooza in the
first half of next year that takes
AI uh a murderous autocrat that is
losing a war in Ukraine and amoral
management I don't think these are bad
people but when it's raining money it
kind of you decide well oh there's a
problem here there might be election
misinformation we can't figure out who's
paying for all of this we don't want to
implement the technology to Watermark AI
because that would be censorship and
we're definitely not going to agree to
remove our protections from 230 based on
AI generated content that's been
elevated algorithmically no let's cash
their check let's cash their damn check
and then we'll revisit what this all
means so I think aggressive regulatory
oversight I'm sick of calling on the
better angels of CEOs I'm sick of for
them that waiting to show up we live in
a capital Society to make more money is
to be more loved broader selection set
of mates people like you you can give
money away so why wouldn't you want to
be more loved so you will ignore the
externalities of your business and to a
certain extent that's what a for-profit
company is supposed to do it's supposed
to make as much money as it can within
the confines of the law so the most
important people around a a are are
elected leaders who need to get out
ahead of this issue as opposed to you
know realizing that one in eight teenage
girls in the UK directly site Instagram
as a form of their self-esteem problems
that often leads to suicidal ideation
and self harm we need to get we need to
get out in front of those on so boring
the boring important people here are The
Regulators the 62% of people that say
they feel lost in directionless though I
reflect on what Sam alman's doing with
this uh Universal basic income program
and a few of these very smart AI people
speak to Universal basic income being
the outcome I.E we will hand money to
people in society because there'll be
such little work for people to do this
is what I hear um that we'll need to
support them in some way so we'll give
them money and my worry has always been
that as you said the pursuit the journey
the victory the rejection all of those
things being Central to our sense of
like purpose and forward motion and
progress um is does that disappear in a
world where we're just giving people
Universal basic income the idiocracy
Vision I don't buy into it we're all
just going to be on a couch watching
Netflix because there's not a need for
for labor anymore first off people don't
need work what they need is purpose so a
lot of times when people are
economically secure and they need
purpose they go to work for nonprofits
or they do something that's not
economically driving them so you can
find purpose without work but having
said that there's a Cadence to all
technological innovation and it goes
something like this there's
catastrophizing that it's going to do
away with all middle class jobs
Automation and the Auto industry and in
the short term there is some job
destruction and then but we couldn't
have envisioned heated seats or car
stereos and employment goes up because
there's new ways to leverage technology
and I think the same is going to happen
with AI there's going to be some
Industries and there's going to be some
job destruction but the opportunities
for new businesses in Ai and its
intersection with healthare education
it's going to create a lot of jobs now
there'll be some losers and some
reshuffling but I just don't buy I think
think I think AI is actually going to
over the long term I think it's going to
increase employment it's just going to
make them more productive and higher
paid and the people who don't adop AI is
not going to take your job someone who
understands AI is going to take your job
but every technology in history has
ultimately usually been some job
destruction on the short end you know
one in three people in America used to
make their living at farming and so we
were worried about all these
Technologies to increase output guess
what now it's only one and 25 but
employment has gone up we we make our
money now from what we describe is if
you think about both of our careers M
like some form of intelligence mhm
whether that's you know so that's why I
think none of those revolutions have
taken on human intelligence I think
they've taken on our muscles yeah I
think about the farming example you gave
there but this feels like the first
Revolution that's like taken the last
thing I have which is my intelligence if
if someone said to me once with some AI
expert on this podcast just imagine
there's someone through that wall there
Steve not only did could they was their
intelligence
10,000% or 10,000 times um broader than
yours but they could think a million
times faster than you can think MH who
are you there's a real arrogance to
think that you are going to control it
or that you will be able to perform
better it as a podcast or or as a author
or as a um
CEO or as a investor you know and that
frame okay is that going be a reality
that there will be a species or a or
whether it exists on a microchip or
whatever that is can think a million
times faster than me and is 10 thousand
times more intelligent than me yes I go
yes in a world of Robotics will that
species be able to move around as well
yes okay well it needs to move around
not really because everything's
connected to the internet anyway I go so
where do I fit in that world like what
am I I understand I'll be good at
releasing oxytocin by hugging my dog and
my girlfriend but beyond that I go where
do I even with driving I think driving
is the biggest employer in the world and
mhm it's playing out the scenario where
you remove all the drivers from Uber and
Lorry drivers and then they pull up at a
gas station and their food is served by
speaking to a a large language model and
then it spits out the back end I go
where is you know that's that's been my
it's kind of like a black hole in my
head I don't really know what comes
after that yeah but we've seen it before
and so in the US the largest employer or
the most popular or the biggest number
of jobs among the non college educated
as truck driver autonomous driving just
makes sense for Long Haul Trucking I
think that's where it's going to start
and what we've been really bad at in the
past is figuring out how to take some of
the incremental income created by that
increased productivity and reinvest it
back in people in terms of retraining or
as you said just giving them money but
you can't stop it I mean you can you can
hold it at the gates for a little while
but eventually the damn bursts and
trying to keep te technology in a bottle
just doesn't just doesn't work but at
the same time I think that autonomous
driving over the long term it's going to
create a lot of jobs and because people
it's going to free up time the people
who understand how to program and repair
autonomous vehicles or drive the you
know figure out the software or the
lobbyist trying to convince San
Francisco to I mean there's just going
to be a lot of jobs what it comes right
down to is to be more competitive but
the people who have those skills are
going to make more money and then the
people who make that money are going to
want to have nicer things and houses
from people who need to show up like you
can make a lot of money as a welder
right now and this goes to one of my
Solutions only
3% of people in the US on LinkedIn the
title is Apprentice in the UK and
Germany it's 11% in Germany 50% of the
population has some vocational
certification in the US it's five we
need much more not only vocational
training but we need to stop shaming it
if you build a house you're going to see
that anyone who has these types of
skills actually makes a really good
living and I don't know if AI is coming
for those jobs so in the information
sector the communities that have had
champagne and cocaine and it's been
disco for 30 years programmers Services
people or lawyers those people are going
to probably get hit disproportionately
hard but the incremental productivity
gains I mean productivity isn't
everything but in the long run it's
almost everything that's a Paul Krugman
post this is supposedly going to
increase productivity in the US over the
next 10 years
1.2% that's probably going to translate
to trillions of dollars in
incremental uh value so I'm just not I
think this is I think again I'm looking
forward to the conversation in 20 years
I think AI is going to create more jobs
and more opportunities than it's going
to destroy I'm an AI Optimist I you
definitely inspired my thinking to be a
little bit more optimistic there because
you're right thinking forward if we were
in I don't know the Industrial
Revolution I never would have been able
to I could think about the things we'd
lose but I couldn't think about the
things that we'd stand to gain through
Innovation and disruption and the
internet that was to come and all these
other things it's really hard for us to
think about what Will exist in the
future and the opportunities but it's
really easy for us to think about the
things we'll lose within that the coming
Revolution cuz I just can just point at
them because they're all around me but I
can't point at things that I've never
seen before if you see what I'm saying
so um thank you Scott thank you again
for returning um the conversation we had
last time was so enjoyable for for me
but I just I use my friends my like my
five friends in my little WhatsApp group
as a barometer for the great
conversations I look at the metrics of
course the watch time the retention all
those things but so many of my really
close friends said he is just brilliant
oh thanks for that thanks for saying
that that this just the truth I can name
name the friends that said that and um
and it's and it's not just the extent
and the depth of knowledge you have it's
you're a wonderful Communicator you're
hilarious and you're hilarious in the
most almost it seems unintentional but
it's a skill that that very few people
are blessed with and you're blessed with
that skill of just telling really
interesting stories in such a compelling
funny way that hold people and you don't
need to shout and scream to do it which
I think is a real talent that you have
so thank you for coming back here thank
you for um moving to the UK means that
we can have these conversations more
often and I'm so excited for your book
in March about wealth feel like a lot of
people need that and even I'm especially
excited for your book about masculinity
I've so so passionate about that subject
matter that I almost thought I need to
write a book about that so knowing
you're writing it means that I
definitely won't because you'll do a
wonderful motivation I got to get it out
before it out well I know a lot of
people I know a lot even like Chris
Williamson I know a lot of these people
have told me they're going to write a
book about it which speaks to the need
and my best friend in my chat actually
said to me cuz I was say what I've got
this this two book deal with penguin I
need a second book he was like I would
love someone to write about what it is
to be a man these days oh there's going
to be a ton of them there's going to be
a ton of them but just let me thank you
for the kind words but just let me say
when I'm on the road for more than two
or three weeks first thing I do is I go
come home and I go see my kids I usually
get home late at night and I can
sometimes and it's sad I'll notice
they've grown because I haven't seen
them in two or 3 weeks I'm like oh my
God he's actually grown I I haven't seen
you in 13 months you have blown up like
I never I didn't know who you were I'm
seeing you in airports I'm seeing you
across media in America so I can't tell
you like I peek into the room and I look
at you sleeping you have grown a foot so
congratulations my sense is you've hit
you've hit a Tipping Point so
congratulations to you and the team it
just feels like you guys are killing it
thank you so much um I am the face this
operation
but you probably can understand that I
wouldn't be able to function without
people that would just like me MH and
that's exactly what I have that's what I
have in Jack who was here from the very
jump when we had zero podcast and nobody
knew who we were that's what I have in
the team jimer and all of the the
broader team so thank you so much I um
we're doing our very best to make things
better um and you you were actually a
huge uh a huge lift in our success
because that first conversation we had
did so well with a huge new new audience
in the United States and and the
momentum has for us continued from there
so thank you Scott thank you for your
time very precious I appreciate it thank
you
[Music]
Steven and